How diffrent are these wings? (or, did I just waste my time dissecting 3000 wings?)


The first part of my PhD project is preforming a bulk sergeant analysis
to identify polymorphisms associated with adaptive change in Drosophila
wings. To map causative polymorphisms, three lines from a low altitude
and three lines from a high altitude population were selected and
crossed for 20 generations, I will select the extreme phenotypic
examples form the F20 progeny for genome sequencing. However, the lines
were selected on the basis of cold tolerance (for another experiment
done in parallel to mine) and wing shape and size were never considered.
Our lab has previously demonstrated that there is a lot of variance for
both shape and size within the populations as well as between the
population. Before I spend the first two years of my PhD doing more
crosses and collecting data, I want to ask if the 6 selected lines (3
high and 3 low) are actually diffrent from one another and
representative of the variation we see within the population for both
size (univariate) and shape (multivariate). In other words, I want to
ask if these lines are statistically diffrent from one another when we
consider all the possible lines we could have selected. I have been
using the data collected from these six lines in the class up to this
point but I would like to use my full data set consisting of these 6
lines plus 20 other lines we have in the lab. The data is made more
complex because not all of the lines were collected at the same time and
under the same conditions so there will be variation introduced by the
environment as well as the student who collected the shape data. 
